[PT-D][Tensor parallelism] Add documentations for TP (#94421)
pytorch/pytorch: docs/source/distributed.tensor.parallel.rst

.. role:: hidden
    :class: hidden-section

Tensor Parallelism - torch.distributed.tensor.parallel
======================================================

We built Tensor Parallelism(TP) on top of DistributedTensor(DTensor) and

> provide several Parallelis styles: Rowwise, Colwise and Pairwise Parallelism.

Reviewer: nit: several Parallelism?

Author: opps. Thanks!

> The entrypoint to parallelize your module and use tensor parallelism is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The entrypoint to parallelize your module using Tensor Parallelism is:
```

.. automodule:: torch.distributed.tensor.parallel

.. currentmodule:: torch.distributed.tensor.parallel

.. autofunction::  parallelize_module

> All parallel styles inherits the following:

Author: Got it, sure.

.. autoclass:: torch.distributed.tensor.parallel.style.ParallelStyle
  :members:

> We have following parallel styles:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tensor Parallelism supports the following parallel styles:
```

.. autoclass:: torch.distributed.tensor.parallel.style.RowwiseParallel
  :members:

.. autoclass:: torch.distributed.tensor.parallel.style.ColwiseParallel
  :members:

.. autoclass:: torch.distributed.tensor.parallel.style.PairwiseParallel
  :members:

> Because we use DTensors within the TP module, we need to specify how we want

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because we use DTensor within Tensor Parallelism, we need to mark the input and output of the module with DTensors.
```

it to interact with the module before and after. The followings are functions
used for input/output preparation:

.. currentmodule:: torch.distributed.tensor.parallel.style

> .. autofunction::  make_input_replicate_1d

Reviewer 2: Actually I'm wondering if we make those APIs be something like `mark_input_replicate_1d` instead of `make`? The real thing we are doing is to mark the inputs/outputs instead of turning them into (i.e. we are using `from_local` instead of `distribute_tensor`)

Author: I understand where you are from... Although internally we don't have drastical changes here. From users' perspective we still change a Tensor to DTensor. So I really don't like the word "mark". (Definition: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/mark). It does not contain any meaning related to change. I would prefer verbs like "change", "convert", "transform", etc.. Or even construct maybe..

.. autofunction::  make_input_shard_1d

> .. autofunction::  make_input_shard_1d_dim_last

Reviewer 2: nit: maybe call it last_dim instead of dim_last?

Author: ok, not a strong opinion here.

.. autofunction::  make_output_replicate_1d
.. autofunction::  make_output_tensor
.. autofunction::  make_output_shard_1d

> Currently, there are some constraints which makes it hard for attention module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, there are some constraints which makes it hard for the `nn.MultiheadAttention` module work out of box for Tensor Parallelism
```

> to work out of box for TP, so we built this multihead_attention module for TP:

Reviewer 2: We should mention that `parallelize_module` will automatically swap nn.MultiheadAttention to this custom module when specifying PairwiseParallel. We don't want user to surprise

.. autoclass:: torch.distributed.tensor.parallel.multihead_attention_tp.TensorParallelMultiheadAttention
  :members:

We also enabled 2D parallelism to integrate with ``FullyShardedDataParallel``.

> Users just need to call the following API explicitly:

Author: The registrations is in the `is_available`

.. currentmodule:: torch.distributed.tensor.parallel.fsdp

> .. autofunction::  is_available

Author: Yes, because of 2D hook registration.

> .. autofunction::  is_available

Author: Will send a follow-up PR to address the naming of this one.
